projects.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /projects/index.html
title: Projects
description: A list of some of the projects I've been a part of.
image:
  feature: clock_generator.jpg
---

###Fealines
Fealines is a cross-platform app for collecting EEG data for people who own the Interaxon Muse.

###PocketSangha
I made an app for meditators to talk to each other for Mind and Life 2014.

###Voronoify
I had this idea for an image filter based on the voronoi transform. It picks random points on an image.
Then, for each pixel in my new image, I color it the same color as the nearest point.

###Clover Hashpan
I submitted an entry to Clover's hashpan contest.

###Spire 2014
I worked at Spire right before their launch in 2014. I helped benchmark some data analysis algorithms.

###Transcriptic 2013
I was an intern at Transcriptic a year after it started. I helped program thermocycler drivers in Scala.

###Rowgger
My first hardware/software project; I had plans to put an accelerometer on a rowing boat to measure my rowing prowess.

Image Attribution:

Commit message:

Developed the projects page a little more.

projects.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /projects/index.html
title: Projects
description: A list of some of the projects I've been a part of.
image:
  feature: clock_generator.jpg
---
This is an incomplete list of a few projects I've worked on, in semi-chronological order.

##Fealines
Fealines is a cross-platform app for collecting EEG data for people who own the Interaxon Muse.

[github](https://github.com/amedeedaboville/fealines)

##PocketSangha
![Four screenshots of the pocketsangha application](../images/pocketsangha_overview.png)
I made an app for meditators to talk to each other and I showed the prototype at Mind and Life 2014.
There is a poster with more information at http://pocketsangha.com/poster.pdf

[github](https://github.com/amedeedaboville/pocketsangha)

##Voronoify
![A picture of flowers filtered through the voronoify filter](../images/voronoify_example.jpg)

My first 'open-source' project. I had this idea for an image filter based on the voronoi transform. It picks random points on an image.
Then, for each pixel in my new image, I color it the same color as the nearest point.

[github](https://github.com/amedeedaboville/voronoify)

##Clover Hashpan

I submitted an entry to a programming contest where the goal was to crack a bunch of SHA1s of fake credit card numbers. I
wanted to use rainbow tables, and there is already a library to generate them(rainbowCrack),
however it it didn't support the rules that I wanted so I made several modifications to the C++ code.
I also managed to halve the space I needed, which was nice as the tables were huge (10GB).

[github](https://github.com/amedeedaboville/hashpan)

##Spire 2014
I worked at Spire right before their launch in 2014. I helped benchmark some data analysis algorithms, and
implement a few inference algorithms.

##Transcriptic 2013
I was an intern at Transcriptic a year after it started. I helped program thermocycler drivers in Scala.

##Rowgger
My first hardware/software project; I had plans to put an accelerometer on a rowing boat to measure my rowing prowess.
I bought a teensy board and an accelerometer off of Sparkfun
